COMMANDS:

docker --version
  show if docker is installed and its version

docker --help
    shows Docker's available commands and options

########## CONTAINER CMDS

docker ps
  Show me the Docker containers that are currently running 
  ! shows only running containers
  see service/container status

docker ps -a
    Show all Docker containers including stopped ones

docker run
    used to create and start a container from a Docker image
    use : docker run IMAGE

docker stop
    Stops a running container without removing it
    use :docker stop CONTAINER

docker start
    Start an existing stopped container
    use : docker start CONTAINER

docker restart
    restarts a container
    use : docker restart CONTAINER

docker rm
    removes a container
    running and stopped ones also
    use : (running) docker rm CONTAINER
    use : (stopped) docker rm -f CONTAINER
    -f : Force-remove a container, even if running.

docker exec
    It lets you run a command inside an already running container
    ! only running containers
    use : docker exec CONTAINER COMMAND
    > docker exec -it CONTAINER bash
    Open a shell inside a running container

docker logs
    shows the output produced by a container
    shows the container's stdout/stderr output
    use : docker logs CONTAINER
    use : (follow logs live) docker logs -f CONTAINER

########## IMAGE CMDS

docker images
    It lists the Docker images stored on your machine
    equivalent cmd : docker image ls

docker pull 
    Download an image from a registry
    use : docker pull IMAGE

docker rmi
    remove an image
    use : docker rmi IMAGE

docker image inspect
    show detailed info about an image
    use : docker image inspect IMAGE


############## DOCKER COMPOSE CMDS

docker compose
    Used to define and manage multiple Docker services as one application.
    Reads the Compose YAML file and manages the services defined inside it.

That YAML file describes things such as services, build contexts, images, networks, volumes, ports, environment variables, and dependencies.

docker compose -f
    Specify which Compose YAML file to use.
    use : docker compose -f dir/docker-compose.yml COMMAND
    -f : file
        tells Compose which YAML file to use

You don't have to run Compose from the directory containing the YAML file.
You can specify its location with -f

docker compose up
    Create and start the services defined in the Compose file.
    use : docker compose up

docker compose up -d --build
  Read the Compose YAML file, create and start services and build images when needed.
  docker compose up -d --build
    up : create and start the services
    -d : detached --> run them in the background (detached)

    --build : rebuild images before starting 
        why : Because your Dockerfile or its files may have changed
        but the existing image still contains the old version.
    --build makes sure your containers are based on the latest image definition
    
    ! Docker cache is still used for unchanged layers:
    --build does not necessarily rebuild everything from zero
    Unchanged layers can still come from cache.
    

docker compose build
    Builds/rebuilds the images defined in the Compose file.
    ! does not start the containers

docker compose ps
    Shows the containers and their status for the Compose project.
    use : docker compose ps

docker compose logs
    Shows the output/logs of the Compose services.
    use : docker compose logs

docker compose logs -f
    Shows the logs and follows them live.
    -f : follow

docker compose stop
    Stops the Compose services without removing the containers.
    use : docker compose stop

docker compose start
    Starts existing stopped Compose containers.
    use : docker compose start

docker compose restart
    Restarts the Compose services.
    use : docker compose restart

docker compose down
    Stops and removes the Compose containers and network.
    use : docker compose down

docker compose down -v
    Stops and removes containers, network, and Compose volumes.
    -v : remove volumes
    ! volumes may contain persistent data

docker compose down --remove-orphans
    Removes containers that belong to the Compose project
    but are no longer defined in the current Compose file.
    --remove-orphans : remove orphan containers

    Orphan = old Compose container whose service 
    is no longer in the current Compose file
    they were defined in the yaml and created by the old 
    compose project but longer defined in the current docker-compose.yml

docker compose down -v --remove-orphans
    Full Compose cleanup:
    removes containers, network, volumes, and orphan containers.




